I'm sorry.
You don't mind my taking.
If you're going to say something worthwhile like that, I just can't pick it up.
I'm amazed at the number of books on birds.
I'm supposed to know everything about birds.
I just can't keep up with the goings-on.
For example, Florida alone has had three good books on birds.
Florida birds this year.
And this is only one of the 48 states.
So no matter where you are, there are any addresses that can distribute for the birds within the state.
There might be a book just on one county.
How do you keep it up?
Amazing.
One of the newspapers that takes me is the Registered Guard of Eugene, Oregon.
And the feature editor there, I mentioned, they asked me some of the upcoming features, and I mentioned you.
Oh, he's a hero out here.
I mean, this is bird country in Oregon.
Yes, it is.
And I'm sure that there's just as much regional fascination there as you described in Florida.
But it's amazing, isn't it?
Now, I think in this book here, they mention that
Well, it depends on how you define a bird watcher.
You can say there are two million or sixty million.
Depends on what you call a bird watcher.
Now, a sportsman, a gunner, a duck hunter, can be called a bird watcher.
He might be confined to twenty species.
It might be a garden club lady who walks through the tickety's at her window.
And you have everything between them and the hardcore birds that will go to the end of the earth to see a new bird.
Then you have the scientists.
Bird watching can be many things.
The observation of birds can be many things.
It can be an art, or a science, or a sport, or recreation, an ethic.
I know a priest in Rio Grande Valley who said it can even be a religious experience.
I can see that.
It can be anything, depending on what you are.
I suspect that it's all these things for you.
Most all those things, yes.
I think it can be every one of them.
I've been obsessed by birds ever since I was eleven years old.
That new book of mine,
It shows a flicker on the cover.
The reason flicker is shown is because that's the bird that hooked me way back in April of 1920 when I went to investigate new terrain with a friend of mine up the street.
And we climbed the hill to a place called Swede Hill in Jamestown, New York.
And there on the trunk of a tree was a bundle of brown feathers.
I thought it was dead, and it was lifeless.
All of a sudden, this thing woke up.
It took its beak from the featherless back, and I saw these wild eyes.
It looked at me and then flashed away with these bright golden wings.
And it was a contrast.
What seemed dead was very much alive.
And ever since then, birds have seemed to me the most vivid expression of life.
It was almost like recreation.
No direction.
Really?
You anticipated some of my questions right off the bat.
You mentioned, you know, you give us the range.
We have two younger daughters, 13 and 12, and we have feeders out back, feeders out front,
I don't know if we're bird watchers.
We don't go to Palm Island like maybe we should sometime.
You are bird watchers.
Enthusiasts, perhaps.
There's so many terms been used, like bird lovers.
I don't think that's a good term because birds don't necessarily return our love.
Maybe they do.
I'm sure about that.
We're not sure about that, but love demands reciprocation, or at least the hope of it.
And bird-watching, I think that's a good term, because people do watch birds.
Birder tends to be a term used by the ones that make a sport of it or a game of it, and make lists and so on, and it will travel a good deal.
And we have the hardcore birders who will literally go to the ends of the earth to see new things.
Quite literally, you're going to hear it, right?
Yes.
Bird observer is a rather formal term.
Birder is rather specific, but I think bird watcher is the general term.
It can almost be these epiphanous, exciting moments when you see something.
You know, we live in central Massachusetts, which all of a sudden, we've never seen such a beautiful creature before.
It's almost a metaphor, isn't it, for discovery and for renewal, and you mentioned resurrection and the use of
But as early you said in Mexico, perhaps there are religious experiences suggested.
And I wonder if birds encompass all of these.
I'm sure it does.
Metaphorically, and what is it?
I mean, we can't— See, I'm an artist, basically, by training.
So I think visually, and I'm also a teacher.
And going away through my writings and my paintings and photography, I may—
I'm an opinion maker.
Although I am an activist in a sense, I don't write to every congressman and all that.
I do not understand the political way of doing things, always.
But I am an opinion maker through my writing, and many people will take action.
I think by your example, too.
I mean, you have been nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize.
You can do things stridently, or you can do things quietly.
And there's as much that you can derive from suggestion, perhaps, as there is from polemic, I guess, polemical writing.
To use a cliché, a picture's worth a thousand words, and I can see how
that is true that it predicts a good picture.
Not every picture will do it.
That's not certainly an excellent photograph, or particularly an excellent painting, which encompasses a lot of the artist's past experience, can tell an awful lot about something, can tell many things.
You do a lot of photography.
Some of the pictures are in this wonderful new volume, by the way, which I'm thrilled to be writing about.
Let me just say for a second,
But this book really is a chronology.
It's not a biography or an autobiography.
I'm going to do that someday.
One biographical book has been done.
I didn't write it.
Which one is that, sir?
That's the one that the Devlins did, John Devlin.
The World Exitory Peterson.
Now, there are two authors there, and they're both gone now.
So I can say this.
I think he should have been a novelist, because I had a hard time imagining what she was really referring to at the time.
So, biographies— I appreciate you being gentle here in your critical evaluation.
Yes, and the thing is, biographies can be subject to memory, and memory is a valuable thing, and then one person that might be interviewed might be letter-perfect.
might imagine.
In a sense that a biography, I should say an autobiography by the author himself, can also have weak points, because you'd rather not mention certain people or incidents, and you might stress others.
So neither gives quite the full story.
Let me just say that David McCullough, who was one of my favorite writers
non-fiction, when he decided to do a book about Theodore Roosevelt, he said, I learned so much by having read his own memoirs.
He said, you learn so much by what a person not only says about himself, but as you say, what he chooses not to say about himself.
And there was subtleties there.
And as a biographer, you choose to explore the earth.
I'm sorry.
I think this is an overview of the work of life.
Not everything in the life of humanity.
It could possibly be.
Well, it's a chronology.
By that I mean it shows my growth, and you might say it's a rather simple beginning to a more elaborate thing, both in painting and in photography.
With photography now, which is my therapy.
There's an immediacy about it, and it's fun.
They're coming out with so many new films and new equipment that you can do better and better work, and the standards are becoming higher because of this equipment.
Now, as for my eyes, I've had cataracts removed from both, and I have astigmatism as well.
It takes a third pair of glasses to pull everything together.
I just bless these new cameras that are auto-focused.
Some old-timers would rather do it their old way.
They're imprinted.
But to me, that's much more dependable than my own eyes are.
But they still have to make those lenses behave.
I still have to be able to see a picture, a way of composition.
movement and things of that sort.
You still have to decide what the central focus is going to be, I mean.
It's not a matter of just point and shoot, it's as many people think.
A camera is a brainless instrument, and you've got to make it behave.
It doesn't have a brain of its own, but it's capable of doing remarkable things, rather like a computer.
In that sense, you've got to make it
What kind of equipment are you using?
Right at the present time, cannons and sometimes Nikons.
I've used them all at one time or another, including—what's your camera from Sweden?
Oh, the Hasselblad.
Hasselblad, because Hasselblad himself was a bird photographer, and I remember Ginny and I visiting.
Really?
He took pictures of me at his desk, of both of us.
Wow.
So, I said, do you mind if we shoot you with my mini-Roli?
He said, go ahead, I'm on their board of directors, too.
But he was involved with most cameras around the world, and a remarkable man.
You've got to love that big image, though, that two and a quarter negative.
Yes, and it was partly that larger image.
particularly for black and white.
I still use my Passer Blood ones.
Really?
Most in a while.
But there's so many kinds of cameras, and they do slightly different things.
At the present time I'm devoted to Canon.
I can't haul them all around in the field with me, so I usually have three cameras with me, three camera bodies, two Canons and one Nikon.
When I did an interview back in 1978 with Ansel Adams over at the, he was doing for Yosemite and the Range of Light.
I guess he was a youngster compared to you at that particular point, I don't recall.
But he still did not use an automatic, I mean he basically did it in a very traditional manner.
And of course he was really using the negative, he was making a work of art I guess.
I don't think he saw it as therapy.
But to see his eyes were good.
It's embarrassing for me to go out with a real hotshot young birder who has eyes that are about twenty-five, half as good as a red-tailed hawk, and they can see things in the distance I can't even spot to think, let alone know what it is.
with my glasses and all that, optical equipment as well.
I have about twenty, twenty-five vision, which is pretty good.
Pretty very good.
I still see very well, but my hearing is better than my eyesight.
It's always been really way up.
And is the ear just as important out in the field as the eye?
Yes, I would say the ear is, with some people, even more important.
I've known people who, one of my friends,
in the tropics who wanted to have so many things to deal with in a forest, rather than be detracted by birds moving here and there through the leaves.
He would keep his head down and listen when he heard something that was different, and he would then check on it.
Ted Parker, who knew more about tropical bird voices than anyone, and he would walk along with
eyes on the ground, and then pick up the unusual sound.
Now in the book there's a nice little biographical profile of the beginning, and it describes your going to New York as a lad of eighteen or nineteen.
Yes.
And at that point you perceived your calling as an artist.
Without any, I guess with a vague notion of what course the art would follow.
I was thinking in terms of, well, I'll make my living in commercial art.
See, and I was basically an artist at first, and I think that's why I was able to do the field guides, which brought us actually from the shotgun school of ornithology, as it was then, because most scientists would believe a bird only if you had it in the hand, and so on.
And then the specimen.
I did not quite believe that you could be absolutely sure about it just by seeing it.
And I took the other view that a bunch of young kids in the Bronx were very good.
I was not from the Bronx, but I went out with them, so they allowed me as part of their group.
I was the first non-Bronx member, and they taught me the tricks of the trade.
But I, being the artist, was able to pull things together and give it form.
So I've been given so much credit for this, for being part of the environmental movement that started it.
Even Rachel Carson learned her birds through my book.
And I did work on DDT before Rachel Carson did, with the Army Air Corps.
And so we don't do anything all by ourselves.
Man is a cooperative animal.
We tend to work together on most things.
It seems so elemental now, doesn't it, when you think of the arrows?
It makes such perfect sense.
Well, as one of my friends just said, you didn't start that the cavemen.
On their drawings on the walls, they had little arrows.
Yeah.
But it is amazing that it hadn't been—it's almost like the conception of the wheel, isn't it?
It makes so much sense in retrospect, I guess.
So many people judge my drawings.
I think of my field guide drawings, which are schematic and patternistic with arrows.
It's not the way I was trained to draw.
I was trained in the Academy and Art Students League and that, and they're some of the best masters of the day.
Realism, of course, because that was a naturalist that is a realist.
So my other kinds of things, the things I've done as prints for Millpon are more in the
Audubon tradition, although Audubon was not the original inspiration for those, but they might be called Audubon-esque.
And a bit of fuertes in there, which is the following, a feather's following form, paralogary.
And even beyond that, movement in space, backlighting, sidelighting, or whatever.
There are so many ways to paint a bird.
So it's an endlessly fascinating subject for you then, isn't it?
Yes.
I gather there's always something to learn.
So some of my latest paintings have done more environmental, including the third dimensional feeling, three dimensional feeling.
And I want to get back to that, but right now Jenny and I are upgrading the Eastern Field Guide to bring it up to the standard.
of the Western book, which I think is my best so far.
This goes more into detail on some of the immature sore birds, for example.
Some of the scarcer ones, it's usually the immatures that are out of range that we see, and on the different stages which a gull might go through from brown and mature to the pearly-backed adults.
So the camera is essential.
It's more than the therapy.
I mean, philosophically you can't— I can use the camera.
I don't copy it, because the artist has more options.
He can edit out, improvise scenes, composition, and that.
And when it comes to the fall of light, you know, it depends on what time of day you're shooting or what kind of film you're using.
So many things in photography.
An artist can, you might say, pick and choose.
In a way, he uses his past experience.
It's a composite of his past experience, whereas a photograph is a record of a moment.
And very valuable, of course.
Audibon never had photography to use.
I think photographs were just about invented.
When Roger does a field guide, also he likes to go out and get a sense of the bird.
When we did the western field guide, I drove the whole coast of California so that we could look at a lot of shorebirds out there so that he could get a sense of we wanted to see them.
On the other hand, photographs, although they might not be
Although some artists do copy, it's very valuable for the color of soft parts, what colors the legs in life, because a bird in a museum specimen loses the color and passes around the eye.
The eye color, of course, and the colors tend to fade.
The plumage doesn't fade in most birds, although it does in some.
By necessity, as you pointed out, particularly when you're dealing with the field guides, the major artistic influence has to be realism.
Yes.
But you also offer a debt of some gratitude to Impressionism in here, too.
A little bit, yes.
And I wonder if you could just explain a bit of that for you.
Well, Impressionism is a simple fall of light on things.
In realism, there are several ways to paint.
You can paint anything from extremely detailed feather maps, almost every barb you will, on every feather.
But actually, when you see things in the outdoors, it's a general fall of light.
Things tend to be simplified.
You've got shadows and highlights, backlighting and movement in space and all that.
can be very realistic.
It's more the way our eyes really see things.
Now of course the diagrams in the field guides are not exactly impressionism, they're just patterns.
It's a schematic approach with arrows pointing to the marks that are critical.
I think we should definitely point out for the record how your wife does
is an active collaborator with you, isn't she?
And you do work on the habitats, I guess, for— Well, the thing that— The ranges of all of them.
The range maps, and the range maps are a very important part of the book.
And the thing is that birds are extending their ranges, some of them, and some are contracting.
And some birds are doing well, and other birds that are not doing well, for various reefs.
We're looking at all the new breeding bird atlases that's been done.
See, that's a new approach.
They're blocking things out in smaller squares and having people cover them all.
We've got to look at all of them.
And so we've got to try to look at all of them.
I think just about every state except two in the East have good atlases now, and this is within the last ten years.
been unstated so far, which is so apparent, is that these are field guides in the truest sense.
I mean, you don't—these aren't done from your studio online.
I mean, you go out into the field, and this is all in situ.
And the hope of my guide was—of doing the guide was to simplify things, because things have been made so complex by the old-timers, the academics.
As I said before,
It started describing a bird from the tip of the beak to the tip of the tail.
And a robin would be described as having a black tip on a yellow beak, three white spots around a dark eye, six black stripes on a white throat, on a gray head.
Only halfway down the page would you find it had a red breast.
And it seemed to me it could be much more direct than that, because I am a simple, direct person.
training has been as an artist rather than as an academic.
You see, and also, but they're beautiful pictures, too.
They're functional, of course.
I don't think they would be this successfully successful.
It's kind of a different art form.
It is, isn't it?
But they're still so pleasing, and it comes back to, what is it about these birds that engage us?
The interesting thing is that
Practically every school that teaches one thousand, every professional one thousand uses my field guide.
And I remember when our teacher first—she's a great teacher—first had us form a Junior Audubon Club, and we got these little leaf instruments, which outlines the color.
She said, that's not the way to learn to draw, really.
And so she gave us these boxing watercolors.
And he would say, if you wear these color plates, copy.
He gave me the blue jay.
That's why I like the blue jay so much.
It was my first bird that I drew.
But he made no pretense about knowing all the birds.
He said, I'll learn with you, which is quite the opposite of my biology teacher later who tried to dominate us.
He didn't do too well in biology because I would argue with her.
She'd say that the snowy egret is extinct.
No, it's not.
It's been coming back since 1920.
And you don't argue with teachers.
You have the red pants.
And so I did extremely well in certain things as a boy.
Mechanical drawing, tops of the class.
Design, tops of the class.
I did fairly well in writing, but it was only when we
had creative poetry that I immediately went to the topic class.
So my direction has been a little bit that of an artist, I guess.
You mentioned earlier that you plan at some point to write your autobiography, and you said that's in the future.
I sense also from the many tributes that are given in this volume that this
may very differently be a retrospective of six decades of work, but as Shakespeare says, the past is prolonged.
I get a sense here that you feel that your best work may even be ahead of you.
That's right, I do.
And the problem is I'm in my 86th year now, past 86, so how long am I going to be able to have to do this?
I'm about 114 to do all the things that I'd like to do, and I've got to try for it.
My only problem is that I've probably had Lyme.
The problem with Lyme takes a couple of times for my life.
I know once I tried to explain to my doctor who lived in old Lyme about—I said, I've been bitten by three of them lately.
He said, wait until you have the symptoms.
I said, the symptoms aren't all the same.
What I'd like you to do is give me the antidote now.
That was in the way back, when the initial stages— Really?
—before they automatically— And I said, send my blood in to be checked, too.
And he sent my blood in, and I did have it.
No kidding.
But I'd had the doctor and pardon— The flu, what is it, they have a vaccine for it, I guess?
Not yet.
They give it to dogs, but they don't have it.
No, they have something that more than— The ticker causes it, right?
Yeah.
The ticker causes it, right?
The tick
Which was not just as an institute to house my memorabilia, which should be done, of course, but basically would reflect my philosophy and my contribution.
My contribution really has been putting in the hands of teachers and others things that they could work with, whether it be paintings.
paintings, my photography, my writing, and my speaking.
So we have forums on these various things, on creative writing, documentary writing, and the painting, artwork.
We've had forums on photography.
As a result of our forum on photography,
A new association has been started called the National Association of Native Photographers.
Most countries in Europe have such associations, but for some reason here in America we've not had a formal, and that's been really sparked at our forum on photography.
We're going to have the first meeting of that at Fort Myers, Florida next January.
As an outgrowth of this institute, we've got a good many things going.
One of the things that's been widespread has been working with teachers on— The Selburn Project.
The Selburn Project.
How do we spell that?
D-O-U-R-N-E.
That's named after Gilbert White Selburn, where he wrote a lot about what happened.
They take one kilometer of land around their schoolhouse.
This was an idea, this was a concept.
They get this going in the United States, and we've gone out, we've given hundreds of workshops on this to teachers.
And they take one kilometer around the schoolyard, and they investigate
the natural world is there, whether it's bugs, snakes, birds, trees, little sand.
And also, if on that one, in that grid of that kilometer, it is a firehouse, or a water work, or a town hall.
All this is investigated by the children.
And what it does is it makes... Well, they can go too far with that.
I know, but that's all part of the grid.
Into this comes the children.
They write about what they see.
They keep nature journals.
They paint about what they see.
They photograph things that they see.
In other words, it's getting hands-on on the outdoors, rather than with the scalpel and the microscope in so many biology things.
One of the most successful workshops that we've had.
That's exciting.
much of biology in that has done the Germanic method of using the microscope and the scalpel.
And this is getting in the field out of doors, which is hands on, which was in a way which my field guides were doing.
They were relating to the visual things out of doors rather than the such and type of things.
The mission of the Institute is the teaching of teachers so that they can bring it to the children and get children interested in the natural world.
Because a lot of teachers are a bit frightened by it, because of how you deal with natural diversity when there's so many birds and many butterflies and all that, let alone getting down to the dragonflies and things.
trying to break through that wall.
You mentioned, again, to go back to this question about what lies ahead, and you said that some of your best work you feel lies.
Could you just give me an idea of projects that, in your view, you really want to explore?
Well, right now, one thing I've got to
finally bring the field guide up to date.
That's going to take several months.
Then I'll be free to paint again.
I've done a lot of paintings for Mill Pond Press, which were limited edition prints.
But I may even take a different direction than that.
I like the way that Guy Koliak is painting.
You might call him an impressionist, but Guy is, I think, a genius who could paint in any direction he chose.
And how does he spell his name?
C-O-H-E-A.
L-E-A-C.
I'm glad I asked.
It looks like Kohelich.
I think names can be rather useful, I think, of some other bird painters.
Arthur Singer, a good bird painter.
Now, that's a perfect name.
It's Art and Singer.
And then there's
So you've got the painter who does wildlife and all that, that's a good name.
But when you've got a name like Donald Richard Eckelberry, it becomes a little more difficult.
And yet he's a great painter, Koliak.
Most people don't know how to pronounce it.
They think it looks like that.
And don't put that in about that.
There are so many good painters now, more than there have ever been, and some are in a way clones of others, because Bateman has been so successful.
He's Canadian.
So many people try to paint the way he does, and there are times when you can't tell whether it's a Koliak or Bateman, because they've been successful, and so they've got those
The work is derivative.
It's very, very derivative.
On the other hand, there are ones who are trying some far-out approaches, and sometimes happy accident works, other times it doesn't.
See, my own training originally was at the Art Students League with Kaiman Nicolaides, and this book, The Natural Way to Draw, is still
Was he Greek, by the way?
No, he was Kogliak.
Yes, he was Greek.
I'm of Greek heritage.
Kymon is a Greek name, too.
Kymon was.
Is it Kymon or Kymon?
Well, if you're Greek, you'd probably call it Kymon.
We always call him Kymon, and he did The Natural Way to Draw, and that's the great book that was
Because it had to do with more or less keeping your eye on the subject and sort of working down here almost by feel.
But that was hard to explain.
You've explained it very well.
I read or heard somewhere that you're planning a trip to the Antarctic, is that right, Sue?
Yes.
And this is, I guess you have a particular lesson.
Well, I want to...
bring my photography up before I'm too old to be able to stand on those cliffs and photograph these things.
I'm going with a good friend who can fix my camera if it's not going wrong, and who can also help me haul stuff around, a good photographer himself.
They're going to the Falcon, huh?
Going to the Falcon State with a family that I know there that are very interested in wildlife.
When are you doing that?
In December.
Oh, so it's forthcoming.
It's forthcoming.
It's right on the edge of it.
So I'm looking forward to that.
And then what we're going to do, we've got to finish this tail end of the, mostly the, at the present time, mostly the maps of the Eastern Field Guide.
Wow.
And then we've done quite a bit already, but we're doing more.
Some won't need any.
You're such an inspiration, Mr. Priest, and I have to tell you, it's
There are so many people who give up at the age of fifty-five, sixty, sixty-five.
You know, I almost drowned two years ago, before my forty—by my eighty-fourth birth.
Eighty-fourth birth.
Well, how could you tell me a little bit about that?
And I was hit by—I was off the coast of Maine in a boat, returning from photography that I'd been doing with
the people from Blue Earth films and television.
In fact, this was a television show, very successful.
And we were returning.
I had spent the time on Eastern Egg Rock, and then we were returning in the boat towards the Audubon camp, and we were going rather close to Western Egg Rock.
And this rogue wave came, and rogue waves are very little understood.
It could have originated weeks before or days before and long distance away.
It's near the end of an island when that remnant force reaches the end of an island and you get a backlash.
And things go like this.
You have one in a million chance of being under that at the wrong time.
There you were.
There I was.
And not one of us was watching.
At the last moment, someone said, here comes a big one.
And then we flipped over in this great flash of light.
Yes, you go in the water and boat.
Fortunately, none of us were trapped under the boat.
One friend of mine nearly lost his life that way this last year off the East Coast.
Those waters are pretty cold, too.
You see, the thing is, you last about six minutes in that water.
And in this great flash of light, a couple more gulps of seawater, and I would have drifted away, but I held myself.
You see all this dark green water, everything, thousands of dollars worth of television equipment going down.
That's not your major concern.
No, it wasn't your major concern, was to get up to the light.
One nice cleric said, when you were down there, did you see the light?
And I said yes, and I struggled like mad to get up to it.
It wasn't quite the answer, but things to get to the top.
You were 84 when this happened.
Two weeks would be my eighty-fourth birthday.
Were you wearing white vests at this point?
Should have been.
No, we had no white vests.
Because it was a calm day.
And one person pulled my hair, lucky I had some hair, to get my head above water.
And I took a gulp of water, I mean took a gulp of air when I was up there, and held it while the next wave washroom.
take a gulp of air when I got up to the top and hold it.
Finally, I reached the heel of the boat and hung on with the others.
Michael Mayo, who was taken— Well, Michael Mayo, he had all his television equipment.
If it hadn't been for him, I would have drowned.
But he was saved by his wife, because he was being pulled down by fifty pounds of
It was hooked on his battery valve.
It cost him to replace that equipment $150,000.
When he bought it, it was much less, but his insurance coverage— But he's a wife, isn't he?
Yes.
And you know why she was such a good swimmer?
Because her father had drowned, and her mother kept her in a swimming pool in Colorado, although they lived in Colorado, in a swimming pool all the time.
So she was able to swim better than any of us.
Now, how long were you in the water?
Did the boat ride itself?
Well, then, of course, we were all hanging there.
And at that point, once another huge wave came, it was bigger than the rest.
So it was a series of waves, it wasn't just one wave.
You know, the waves tend to be every seventh, seventh, seventy-seventh, seven hundred and seventy-seventh there, all big.
Well, we couldn't hold on.
By that time we were
Closer to the shore, my feet couldn't touch the bottom.
Oh, so thankfully you were.
But then I was being thrown against the rocks.
I was bloody—my shoulders were—I thought my shoulders were shook.
And I could not drag myself out of the water, because I was so too weak.
And Michael Mayo pulled me out.
But he couldn't have done that if his wife hadn't saved him.
So he dragged me up on the rocks, laid me there, and meanwhile his wife and
a tent had come up, and this was put over me.
And one fellow had a cigarette hose that was still working, so they made fires to alert the fastening boats.
Well, finally a boat full of puffin watches came by.
If I hadn't written a field guide, they wouldn't have been there.
See, I was in hypothermia, but by the time the Coast Guard came there, I was kind of delirious.
And I remember seeing, against this weak light on the top, this butterfly sitting on top.
I thought, well, that's a monarch.
I said, no, that's too big for a monarch.
Then it's just not the shape of a monarch.
It's more like a red admiral or an angle wing.
I thought, oh my God, it may be an angel's wing.
You know, I was kind of hilarious.
And I was too weak to check on it and I just collapsed again and fell asleep.
Where was this precisely?
Off the coast of Maine.
West Egg Rock.
West?
Egg is an egg rock.
Three words?
Yes.
But the thing is that by the time the big Coast Guard boat came, which is offshore, then four men came up in a zodiac or something.
They tried to walk me down, but I was too weak, my legs were too weak to get over that slippery rock wave.
So they laid me on a stretcher and bound me across the shoulders.
It was the most helpless feeling I've ever had, just looking up at this gray mess, it was getting sort of dark, and I saw Alicia's storm petrel fly over.
It was an appropriate bird to see, but I don't know whether I really saw it.
And by midnight I was in the hospital at Boothbay to check my vital signs.
I was there two days, and my heart was okay, even though I'd been struggling so much that my heart hurt.
And my hip was not broken as I thought it was.
I was in better shape when I went out of the hospital than when I got in.
But the hospital had the rule that not to talk to reporters about any person in trouble, because maybe the person who was in trouble didn't want to know what was wrong.
In fact, I would have been happy to have people know that the nurse never
So the New York Times tried to piece it together about their own, and they came close to being correct.
They were being correct.
They were the closest to anybody.
But in one news report it was an eighteen-foot boat, and another report it was a forty-two-foot boat, and another was a thirty-fourth.
See, they were all getting— Sure.
Well, what was it?
How many feet?
It was about thirty-two.
Well, what wisdom do you glean from this experience?
Never to go out without a life jacket on.
Well, that's fundamental, but I wonder if there's anything, any wisdom.
Every day is important in your life.
And if I had just gotten one really bad review by Kenny Parks again, I don't remember his name, I would have taken another couple of gulps.
No, mainly it's because I had two books to finish.
He had books to do.
He had to go on.
I couldn't give it.
Is there a secret to this, Mr. Peterson?
Can you explain what it is?
No, why I should be so lucky.
Any one of those five people.
I'm not just talking about that incident.
I'm just talking about the inspirational example you give to all of us.
I mean, eighty-six years old.
Well, I have more to do.
I think it's as simple as that.
Well, that's a good one to end on, isn't it?
I don't want to overstate my... Well, the main thing, I'm going to be careful in the Antarctic, because I've had one or two close calls down there in
Because of waves and boat trouble.
No, you're not going on this trip.
No, I've been five times, and last Christmas I was there for about almost a month.
And my children asked if I could please have Christmas with them this year.
So I asked Roger, sorry if I stayed home this year.
I'm not sure.
I've got this wonderful man going once on the floor.
We'll take good care of them.
Russ Kenny.
She's worked out very well.
I love the Antarctic, too.
It never gets boring, does it, to you?
It never does.
I could say I don't really have to do this, but I want to improve on things I've done in the past.
In the Falklands, you've always wanted to spend more time in the Falklands.
I presume I'll not have another Antarctic trip.
I just want to do it right.
See, I've gotten some awfully good pictures in the Antarctic, but there are certain things that have to do with depth perception and that that I can improve on.
Lerch is known as the king penguin, too.
That might be interesting for your audience.
Well, my friends in Texas call me the king penguins.
I don't really have a—I'm not quite sure what my favorite bird is.
I could say it's the Flicker, because that's the bird that hooked me.
I could say it's the Blue Jay because it was the first bird I drew.
I could say it's the Oscar.
I repeat myself.
That's okay.
When people ask me, what is my favorite bird, I find it difficult to answer because I like all birds.
But in my boyhood, it was the Piliated woodpecker, the big flamboyant woodpecker.
I could say that the blue jay is my favorite bird because that was the first bird I learned to draw, the first bird I tried to draw, rather.
And I could say the flicker is my favorite bird, and it probably really should be because it was the bird that hooked me on watching birds.
I've told this story several times about this bundle of brown feathers on the tree trunk and I just
I thought it was dead and it was very much alive when I poked it.
And this contrast between death and life, or what I thought was dead and what was alive, was like resurrection.
And I could say in a way that the Osprey is a favorite bird, which is the one that I've been most concerned with, helping it make its comeback here in the East.
And as a family of birds, the penguins are my favorite family, and I enjoy the king penguin most because it's so colorful and flamboyant.
And my friends in Texas call me the king penguin.
This group in Texas always gives bird names to various people.
They choose the name.
You don't have anything to do with that.
Ginny's called the Woodthrust because she sings well.
has to keep out of the sun.
So she's called the Woodthrust.
That's great.
At any rate, I'm the King Penguin.
I don't know why I'm not the Emperor Penguin.
I know you've got another interview coming up, so I think I'm going to give you a few minutes to get ready for your next interview.
You've been very generous with your time.